Add EIP: Upgrade Nomenclature (#11161)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-8133.md

### Execution Layer Upgrade Naming

Execution Layer upgrades MUST be named after the host city of a Devcon or Devconnect conference. The convention originated with Devcon host cities and later expanded to include Devconnect host cities.

One exception applies: the Merge included **Paris** as a reference to EthCC to commemorate the first biggest Ethereum Community Conference.

Observed examples include:

- **[Berlin](https://github.com/ethereum/execution-specs/blob/8dbde99b132ff8d8fcc9cfb015a9947ccc8b12d6/network-upgrades/mainnet-upgrades/berlin.md)** - Devcon 0  
- **[London](https://github.com/ethereum/execution-specs/blob/8dbde99b132ff8d8fcc9cfb015a9947ccc8b12d6/network-upgrades/mainnet-upgrades/london.md)** - Devcon 1  
- **[Paris](https://github.com/ethereum/execution-specs/blob/8dbde99b132ff8d8fcc9cfb015a9947ccc8b12d6/network-upgrades/mainnet-upgrades/paris.md)** - EthCC  
- **[Shanghai](https://github.com/ethereum/execution-specs/blob/8dbde99b132ff8d8fcc9cfb015a9947ccc8b12d6/network-upgrades/mainnet-upgrades/shanghai.md)** - Devcon 2  
- **Cancún** - Devcon 3  
- **Prague** - Devcon 4  
- **Osaka** - Devcon 5  
- **Amsterdam** - Devconnect 1  
- **Bogotá** - Devcon 6  

> Future Execution Layer upgrade names MAY continue referencing Devcon or Devconnect host cities.

Author: We can have a new Informational EIP, then.

This section documents the observed evolution of upgrade naming conventions.

### Early Upgrade Naming

Early Ethereum upgrades used names that reflected the experimental state of the network, major milestones, or thematic concepts associated with shipped functionality.

Observed upgrades include:

* **Frontier (Genesis)**: Named to convey Ethereum’s initial launch as a raw and experimental “frontier” environment for developers, while Genesis references the creation of the Genesis Block (Block #0), which established the initial network state and Ether distribution.
* **Frontier Thawing**: Named to reflect the lifting of the initial 5,000 gas block limit that had effectively “frozen” transaction activity after launch. The “thawing” phase enabled miners to establish operations and early users to onboard without time pressure, allowing the network to begin processing live transactions.

> * **[Homestead](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-606)**: Named to signify Ethereum’s transition from the experimental "Frontier" phase into a more stable and production-ready network, marking the first release considered suitable for broader usage rather than beta experimentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **[Homestead](./eip-606.md)**: Named to signify Ethereum’s transition from the experimental "Frontier" phase into a more stable and production-ready network, marking the first release considered suitable for broader usage rather than beta experimentation.
```

* **Cancún** - Devcon 3  
* **Prague** - Devcon 4  
* **Osaka** - Devcon 5  
* **Amsterdam** - Devconnect 1  
* **Bogotá** - Devcon 6  

Additional past and announced event host cities include, but are not limited to, *Istanbul, Bangkok, Buenos Aires and Mumbai*.

Future Execution Layer upgrade names MAY continue referencing Devcon or Devconnect host cities.

This convention provides geographic neutrality, cultural diversity, and predictable sequencing for roadmap planning and external communication.

### Consensus Layer Upgrade Naming

Following the Serenity roadmap phase and the launch of the Beacon Chain, Consensus Layer network upgrades adopt a naming convention based on star names in alphabetical order.

Consensus Layer (formerly Eth2 / Beacon Chain) upgrades MUST be named after stars, with each upgrade name advancing alphabetically by first letter.

Each selected name MUST correspond to a recognized star name based on rough consensus. This convention was established through open community coordination to provide a consistent, neutral, and globally recognizable naming scheme.

> The sequence begins with **[Altair](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/67fd7979ffd705bd6b0b5c1aaa842a445cc74d9a/README.md#altair)**, activated in October 2021 as the first Consensus Layer upgrade, which established the star-based naming convention and serves as the reference point for all subsequent upgrades, followed in alphabetical order by names including but not limited to **[Bellatrix](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/f8ae982c2fc7dbb03a3c95a638da4486310e09e9/README.md#stable-specifications)**, **[Capella](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/01b53691dcc36d37a5ad8994b3a32d8de69fb1aa/README.md#stable-specifications)**, **[Deneb](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/tree/65b74bb2b7fc5e22f10aa1b9c0278be11f8960f7/specs/deneb)**, **[Electra](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/tree/master/specs/electra)**, **[Fulu]https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/tree/master/specs/fulu)**, **[Gloas](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/tree/master/specs/gloas)**, and **Heze**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sequence begins with **[Altair](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/67fd7979ffd705bd6b0b5c1aaa842a445cc74d9a/README.md#altair)**, activated in October 2021 as the first Consensus Layer upgrade, which established the star-based naming convention and serves as the reference point for all subsequent upgrades, followed in alphabetical order by names including but not limited to **[Bellatrix](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/f8ae982c2fc7dbb03a3c95a638da4486310e09e9/README.md#stable-specifications)**, **[Capella](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/01b53691dcc36d37a5ad8994b3a32d8de69fb1aa/README.md#stable-specifications)**, **[Deneb](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/65b74bb2b7fc5e22f10aa1b9c0278be11f8960f7/specs/deneb)**, **[Electra](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/65b74bb2b7fc5e22f10aa1b9c0278be11f8960f7/specs/electra)**, **[Fulu](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/65b74bb2b7fc5e22f10aa1b9c0278be11f8960f7/specs/fulu)**, **[Gloas](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/65b74bb2b7fc5e22f10aa1b9c0278be11f8960f7/specs/gloas)**, and **Heze**.
```

Hi Pooja, the bot fails because: (1) there was a missing bracked and (2) the bot only allows links to permalinks (like /blob/commit) in the consensus-specs repository (see EIP-1).

I chcked this locally and it looks like it works. Please recheck if I did not mess up any URLs.
